>> Woodruff: A SECOND AMERICAN
JOURNALIST APPEARS TO HAVE BEEN
EXECUTED BY ISLAMIC STATE
MILITANTS, WHO THREATENED MORE
TO COME IF THE U.S. DOESN'T BACK
OFF.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
GWEN IFILL IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS TUESDAY, ARE
HEALTH CARE WORKERS LOSING THE
BATTLE TO STOP THE SPREAD OF
EBOLA IN WEST AFRICA?
WE TALK TO THE HEAD OF THE U.S.
CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL WHO
SAYS THE OUTBREAK IS "SPIRALING
OUT OF CONTROL."
THEN, THE CYBER-THEFT OF
CELEBRITIES' PRIVATE PHOTOS
PROMPTS QUESTIONS OVER JUST HOW
SECUER IS
ONLINE.
PLUS, A WOMAN'S MISSION TO GIVE
CHINA'S ABANDONED AND OFTEN
NEGLECTED ORPHANS A SENSE OF
FAMILY LIFE ONCE AGAIN.
>> IT DOESN'T MEAN THAT THEY
HAVE TO BE BACK WITH THEIR BIRTH
FAMILIES OR PERMANENTLY ADOPTED
OR ANYTHING, THEY JUST NEED TO
HAVE THE LOVE THAT A FAMILY
GIVES NATURALLY TO A CHILD.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS "NEWSHOUR."
>> Woodruff: "ISLAMIC STATE"
RADICALS DECLARED TODAY THEY'VE
KILLED A SECOND AMERICAN HOSTAGE
IN SYRIA.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT CAME HOURS
AFTER U.S. AIR-STRIKES AIMED AT
THE HEAD OF ANOTHER MAJOR
MILITANT GROUP IN SOMALIA.
MORE ABOUT THAT LATER, IN THE
NEWS SUMMARY.
FIRST, THE GRUESOME NEW VIDEO
THAT PURPORTS TO SHOW A REPORTER
BEING BEHEADED.
>> Woodruff: FOR THE SECOND TIME
IN TWO WEEKS, A CHILLING MESSAGE
PRECEDED THE MURDER OF AN
AMERICAN JOURNALIST.
THE VICTIM THIS TIME:  STEVEN
SOTLOFF, A 31-YEAR-OLD
FREELANCER FOR "TIME" AND
FOREIGN POLICY MAGAZINES.
HE WENT MISSING IN SYRIA LAST
YEAR.
ON THE VIDEO, A HOODED MAN WITH
A BRITISH ACCENT DIRECTS A
MESSAGE TO PRESIDENT OBAMA
BEFORE KILLING SOTLOFF.
>> I'M BACK OBAMA AND I'M BACK
BECAUSE OF YOUR ARROGANT FOREIGN
POLICY TOWARDS ISLAMIC STATE,
BECAUSE OF YOUR INSISTENCE AT
CONTINUING YOUR BOMBINGS.
YOU, OBAMA, HAVE YET AGAIN,
THROUGH YOUR ACTIONS, KILLED YET
ANOTHER AMERICAN CITIZEN.
>> Woodruff: THE AUGUST 19TH
VIDEO THAT SHOWED THE BEHEADING
OF JAMES FOLEY ALSO BRIEFLY
SHOWED SOTLOFF.
THE "ISLAMIC STATE" WARNED HE
WOULD SUFFER THE SAME FATE AS
FOLEY IF U.S. AIR STRIKES
CONTINUED IN IRAQ.
THEY DID, AS RECENTLY AS THIS
WEEKEND, WHEN AMERICAN PLANES
BLASTED TARGETS AROUND THE MOSUL
DAM AND HELPED RELIEVE THE
BESIEGED TOWN OF AMERLI.
THIS, AS SOTLOFF'S MOTHER
PLEADED LAST WEEK FOR HER SON'S
RELEASE.
>> STEVEN HAS NO CONTROL OVER
THE ACTIONS OF THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT.
HE IS AN INNOCENT JOURNALIST.
I'VE ALSO LEARNED THAT YOU, THE
CALIPH, CAN GRANT AMNESTY.
I ASK YOU TO PLEASE RELEASE MY
CHILD.
>> Woodruff: TODAY, A SPOKESMAN
SAID THE SOTLOFF FAMILY IS IN
SHOCK.
IN WASHINGTON, PRESIDENT OBAMA
DID NOT COMMENT, AS HE LEFT FOR
AN OVERSEAS TRIP.
BUT THE STATE DEPARTMENT
CONDEMNED THE KILLING.
>> IF THE VIDEO IS GENUINE, WE
ARE SICKENED BY THIS BRUTAL ACT
TAKING THE LIFE OF ANOTHER
INNOCENT AMERICAN CITIZEN.
OUR HEARTS GO OUT TO THE SOTLOFF
FAMILY AND WE WILL PROVIDE MORE
INFORMATION AS IT BECOMES
AVAILABLE.
>> Woodruff: PENTAGON OFFICIALS
HAVE SAID THE U.S. MILITARY
TRIED TO RESCUE SOTLOFF, FOLEY
AND OTHER HOSTAGES EARLIER THIS
SUMMER, BUT THE CAPTIVES WERE
GONE WHEN THE TROOPS ARRIVED.
AND NOW, A THIRD HOSTAGE IS
UNDER THREAT.
TODAY'S VIDEO WARNED THAT DAVID
CAWTHORNE HAINES, A BRITISH AID
ERXT.
>> Woodruff: JOINING ME NOW FOR
REACTION TO THE REPORTED
EXECUTION OF STEVEN SOTLOFF, IS
CHARLIE SENNOTT, CO-FOUNDER OF
GLOBAL POST, WHERE HE WORKED
WITH SLAIN JOURNALIST JAMES
FOLEY.
HE'S NOW EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF
THE GROUNDTRUTH PROJECT.
CHARLIE SENNOTT, YOU JOINED US
TWO WEEKS AGO TO TALK ABOUT
JAMES FOLEY, AND I KNOW STEVEN
SOTLOFF DIDN'T REPORT FOR YOU,
BUT YOU HAVE BEEN WORKING WITH
THE FOLEY FAMILY, AND WHAT HAVE
YOU LEARNED ABOUT STEVEN SOTLOFF
IN THE COURSE OF THIS?
>> WELL, STEVEN, LIKE JIM FOLEY,
WAS JUST A GREAT JOURNALIST,
SOMEONE WHO REALLY WANTED TO BE
ON THE GROUND, TELLING THE
STORIES THAT MATTER.
HE TOOK RISKS DOING THAT, BUT HE
DID IT KNOWING WHAT HE WAS
DOING, AND BOTH FAMILIES SHARE
THE SENSE THAT THEIR SONS WERE
PASSIONATE ABOUT THEIR WORK AND
I THINK BOTH FAMILIES UNDERSTAND
THAT IT'S WORK THAT REALLY
MATTERED.
I THINK THE ONLY TIME I
INTERCEPTED WITH STEVEN WAS IN
EGYPT WHEN OUR PATHS CROSSED
INSIDE THE MOSQUE WHERE THE
MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD WAS HOLED UP
IN THE SUMMER PAST, A YEAR AND A
HALF AGO, I BELIEVE IT WAS JUNE
AND JULY AND AUGUST OF 2013.
YOU KNOW, HE WAS THERE WORKING
THEN, AND HE WAS INSIDE THE
MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD AND REPORTING
ON IT AND DID SO FOR WORLD
AFFAIRS JOURNAL.
IF YOU READ THAT REPORTING AND
LOOKED AT HOW OPEN HE WAS AND
TRYING TO GET INSIDE THE STORY
AND UNDERSTAND IT, YOU SAY THE
SAME REPORTING IN SYRIA, AND I
THINK STEVEN AND JIM WERE ALIKE
IN HOW THEY APPROACHED THEIR
REPORTING.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO YOU KNOW
ABOUT THE EFFORTS MADE BY THE
SOTLOFF AS WELL AS FOLEY FAMILY
TO GET THEIR SONS RELEASED?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, THE
INFORMATION OF THE FAMILIES IS
VERY CLOSELY GUARDED.
OUR C.E.O. AT GLOBALPOST, MY
CO-FOUNDER, WAS VERY MUCH
INVOLVED IN THE DETAILS AND I
WAS NOT.
WHAT I KNOW IS THROUGH
UNDERSTANDING WHAT'S BEEN
REPORTED, WHAT'S BEEN SHARED
PUBLICLY.
WE HAVE A LOT OF INFORMATION WE
HAVE TO BE VERY CAREFUL WITH,
BUT I CAN DEFINITELY SHARE WITH
YOU THAT ALL THESE FAMILIES HAE
WORKED SO HARD AND THEIR
REPRESENTATIVES HAVE WORKED SO
HARD TO TRY TO SECURE THE
RELEASE.
IT'S REALLY ONE OF THE GREATEST
AND MOST DIFFICULT AND TROUBLING
MORAL QUESTIONS OF OUR TIME --
WHAT DO YOU DO TO SAVE A LIFE?
DO YOU PAY THE RANSOM WHICH THEY
ARE DEMANDING, OR DO YOU HAVE
LIVE UP TO THE U.S. GOVERNMENT'S
POLICY, WHICH IS TO SAY WE NEVER
PAY RANSOM?
IT'S ONE OF THE MOST COMPLEX
MORAL QUESTIONS WE COULD FACE.
I DON'T KNOW THE ANSWER BUT I
KNOW THE SYSTEM AS IT IS NOW
WHERE EUROPEAN GOVERNMENTS DO
PAY AND WHERE THE U.S.
O FAMILIES
WILL PAY, YOU CAN'T HELP BUT
UNDERSTAND THE EMOTION OF A
FAMILY AS IS EXPRESSED IN THE
VIDEO BY STEVEN'S MOTHER, THEY
JUST WANT TO SAVE THEIR SON.
THEY JUST WANT HIM HOME.
IT'S A VERY HUMAN EMOTION.
WE NEED TO GET TOGETHER AND
RE-THINK THIS POLICY IN A WAY
THAT'S COLLECTIVE.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE ANSWER IS
BUT IT NEEDS TO BE SORTED OUT.
>> Woodruff: ARE YOU SAYING
THE FAMILIES BELIEVE THAT THE
U.S. GOVERNMENT SHOULD HAVE DONE
MORE TO WIN THEIR RELEASE?
>> I THINK NONE OF THE FAMILIES
HAVE GONE THERE AND I THINK THEY
DO THAT FOR A REASON.
WHEN TRAUMA HAPPENS INSIDE A
FAMILY OR A NEWS ORGANIZATION,
KIT CREATLOT OF DIVISIONS.
THERE ARE TRIP WIRES EVERYWHERE
IF YOU LOOK AT THE EFFECT OF
TRAUMA.
EVERYONE INVOLVED IN THIS FROM
THE CONCENTRIC CIRCLE OF THE
FAMILY TO THE WIDER CIRCLE OF
THE NEWS ORGANIZATION,
EVERYONE'S EXPERIENCING TRAUMA,
AND THE DIVISIONS COULD BE
EVERYWHERE.
THE KEY IS TO REMEMBER WHO DID
THIS.
THIS WAS DONE BY I.S.I.S.
THIS WAS DONE BY A REALLY DARK
FORCE THAT IT REALLY IS THAT
CLEAR AN ISSUE AND WE CAN'T
FORGET TO KEEP LOOKING AT THEM.
THE POLICY QUESTION IS HOW DO
YOU APPROACH THEM?
WHAT DO YOU DO TO SHUT THEM DOWN
AND PUT THEM OUT OF BUSINESS?
THOSE ARE ENORMOUSLY COMPLEX
QUESTIONS.
BUT I THINK THE FAMILIES ARE
TRYING TO STAY AWAY FROM THOSE
DIVISIONS.
THEY WANT ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS,
AND I THINK THAT'S FAIR AND I
HOPE THEY GET THE ANSWERS, BUT I
THINK THEY'RE WISE TO STAY
TOGETHER AND KEEP FOCUSED ON THE
EVIL THAT HAS PRESENTED ITSELF
TO US AND WORK HARD TO SAVE
LIVES THAT STILL HANG IN THE
BALANCE.
>> Woodruff: CHARLIE SENNOTT,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: FOR MORE ON WHAT
THIS LATEST KILLING MEANS FOR
U.S. POLICY TOWARD THE ISLAMIC
STATE, WE GET THREE VIEWS.L BEN.
AMBASSADOR-AT-LARGE AND
COORDINATOR FOR COUNTERTERRORISM
DURING THE FIRST TERM OF THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION.
HE'S NOW A PROFESSOR AT
DARTMOUTH COLLEGE.
ANNE-MARIE SLAUGHTER WAS THE
DIRECTOR OF POLICY PLANNING AT
THE STATE DEPARTMENT ALSO DURING
THE FIRST TERM OF THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION.
SHE'S NOW PRESIDENT AND C.E.O.
OF THE NEW AMERICA FOUNDATION.
AND RETIRED ARMY LIEUTENANT
COLONEL DOUGLAS OLLIVANT HAD TWO
TOURS IN IRAQ.
HE WAS ALSO THE DIRECTOR FOR
IRAQ ON THE NATIONAL SECURITY
COUNCIL STAFF DURING THE
PRESIDENCIES OF GEORGE W. BUSH
AND BARACK OBAMA.
HE'S NOW A MANAGING PARTNER IN A
CONSULTING COMPANY WHICH DOES
BUSINESS IN IRAQ.
WE THANK YOU ALL FOR BEING HERE.
COLONEL OL OLLIVANT, WHAT DO YOU
MAKE OF THE STATEMENT BY THIS
I.S.I.S. MILITANT BEFORE THIS
APPARENT EXECUTION, THAT THIS
WAS BEING DONE, THIS KILLING, IN
RESPONSE TO U.S. CONTINUING
ATTACKS ON I.S.I.S.?
>> OH, I'M SURE THAT'S THEIR
PERSPECTIVE, BUT THE FACT IS
THESE ATTACKS HAD NOTHING TO DO
WITH THESE HOSTAGES.
THE UNITED STATES WAS CONDUCTING
THESE AIR STRIKES TO PROTECT THE
MOSUL DAM, TO PROTECT U.S.
CITIZENS IN ERBIL AND MOST
RECENTLY TO RESCUE THESE SHIA IN
THE VILLAGE OF AMERLI WHO ARE
UNDER THREAT OF GENOCIDE, NO
OTHER WORD FOR IT, BUT I.S.I.S.
SO THIS ISN'T ABOUT OUR
HOSTAGES.
THIS IS ABOUT US ATTACKING
I.S.I.S. FOR VERY REAL, BOTH
POLITICAL AND HUMANITARIAN
REASONS.
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU SEE
WHAT'S BEHIND THIS, ANNE-MARIE
SLAUGHTER?
>> WELL, I AGREE THAT THIS IS,
IN SOME WAYS, EVIDENCE THAT OUR
BOMBINGS ARE, IN FACT, AFFECTING
I.S.I.S.
WE'RE HURTING THEM.
THEY ARE TRYING TO GET US TO
STOP AND THEY'RE USING THE
WEAPONS THEY HAVE AT THEIR
DISPOSAL, WHICH ALSO SERVE AS
RECRUITING VIDEOS FOR THEM AND
FOR ANGRY, RADICALIZED YOUNG MEN
WHO WANT TO JOIN THE FIGHT, THE
DECAPITATION, AS HORRIBLE AS IT
IS, OF AN AMERICAN IS A
RECRUITING VIDEO.
BUT THIS IS NOT ABOUT WHETHER WE
PAID RANSOM OR NOT.
THIS IS TERRIBLY THE WEAPONS
THEY HAVE AT THEIR DISP TO
TRY TO HIT BACK.
>> Woodruff: DANIEL BENJAMIN,
DO YOU SEE WHAT HAPPENED, WHAT
THE VIDEO PURPORTED TO SHOW
TODAY AS A RESULT OF WHAT THE
U.S. IS DOING?
>> WELL, I THINK THERE CERTAINLY
WAS THE DESIRE ON THE PART OF
I.S.I.S. TO HIT BACK.
THIS IS, IN FACT, A RETALIATION
FOR THE BOMBING RUNS, AND THIS
IS ALSO TO ELABORATE ON WHAT
ANNE-MARIE SLAUGHTER WAS SAYING,
ANOTHER WAY FOR THEM TO
UNDERSCORE THEIR REPUTATION AS
THE MOST BRUTAL TERRORIST GROUP
THAT WE HAVE SEEN YET, AND THE
MANY, MANY KILLINGS TWE
HEARD ABOUT IN PRISONS OF SYRIAN
TROOPS, THE CRUCIFIXIONS, THE
SLAUGHTER OF THE YAZIDIS, ALL OF
THIS GOES TOGETHER, IN THEIR
MINDS, TO STRENGTHEN THEIR
REPUTATION AS A TRULY FEARSOME
GROUP THAT WILL STOP AT NOTHING.
>o IS I.S.I.S. A
WORSE THREAT THAN WAS ALREADY
BELIEVED?
>> I DON'T THINK WE HAVE ANY NEW
INFORMATION.
OUR HEARTS GO OUT TO THE SOTLOFF
FAMILY, AND WE SAW THE EARLIER
EXECUTION AND THE SECOND ONE
TELLS US NOTHING NEW ABOUT THE
GROUP.
IT'S A DEATH CULT, A GROUP THAT
BURIES CHILDREN ALIVE, THAT
SELLS YOUNG GIRLS AS SEX SLAVES,
THAT PERFORMANCE CRUCIFIXIONS.
NOTHING'S BEYOND THIS GROUP, SO
I DON'T THINK WE LEARNED
ANYTHING PARTICULARLY NEW TODAY.
>> Woodruff: THAT RAISES THE
QUESTION YET AGAIN, ANNE-MARIE
SLAUGHTER, WHAT SHOULD U.S.
POLICY BE?
WE HEARD PRESIDENT OBAMA SAY
LAST WEEK THAT THE
ADMINISTRATION'S STRATEGY TOWARD
I.S.I.S. IS STILL BEING
DEVELOPED.
WHAT SHOULD THAT STRATEGY BE?
>> WELL, I THINK THERE ARE TWO
QUESTIONS THERE -- ONE IS WHAT
SHOULD OUR POLICY BE WITH
RESPECT TO RANSOMS AND HOSTAGES,
AND AS MUCH AS ALL OUR HEARTS GO
OUT TO THE FAMILIES OF THE
JOURNALISTS, I THINK OUR POLICY
IS THE RIGHT ONE, NOT TO PAY
RANSOM.
RANSOM FUNDS THIS GROUP TO DO
MORE KILLING AND, OF COURSE,
ALSO ENCOURAGES KIDNAPPING.
THE LARGER QUESTION IS WHAT DO
WE DO ABOUT I.S.I.S. AS A WHOLE
AND, HERE, THIS THREAT HAS BEEN
GROWING FOR CERTAINLY 18 MONTHS
TO TWO YEARS, THROUGH THE
CONTINUATION OF THE SYRIAN CIVIL
WAR NOW SPILLED INTO IRAQ.
I THINK A COMPREHENSIVE STRATEGY
TO DO MORE THAN TO CONTAIN
I.S.I.S., TO ACTUALLY ELIMINATE
OR DECIMATE I.S.I.S. HAS TO BE A
REGIONAL STRATEGY THAT ADDRESSES
THE SYRIAN CIVIL WAR AS WELL AS
WHAT'S HAPPENING IN IRAQ AND
AMONG THE KURDS, AND THAT'S A
LONGER-TERM STRATEGY, AT LEAST
FOUR TO SIX MONTHS.
IT HAS TO INCLUDE MULTIPLE
COUNTRIES IN THE REGION,
INCLUDING IRAN, AND, THUS FAR,
WE HAVE NOT BEEN WILLING TO TAKE
ON THAT BROADER STRATEGY THAT
IS, AS I SAID, HAS TO INCLUDE
SYRIA AS WELL AS IRAQ.
>> Woodruff: IN WHAT FORM,
DANIEL BENJAMIN, DO YOU SEE THAT
STRATEGY TAKING?
HOW MUCH MORE AGGRESSIVE OR NOT
SHOULD THE U.S. BE AT THIS
POINT?
>> WELL, THIS EXECUTION IS, OF
COURSE, GOING TO RAISE THE
PRESSURE ON THE PRESIDENT
ENORMOUSLY TO DO SOMETHING IN
THE NEAR TERM, BUT I THINK THAT
A RUSH TO ACTION, AT THIS POINT,
WOULD BE UNWISE UNTIL WE CAN
MAKE SURE THAT ACTION IS REALLY
EFFECTIVE.
SO BOMBING STRIKES, FOR EXAMPLE,
IN SYRIA COULD VERY WELL
UNDERMINE OUR EFFORTS BECAUSE IT
WOULD ALIENATE ALL THE COUNTRIEE
PARTNERSHIP ANNE-MARIE SLAUGHTER
WAS DISCUSSING.
I DO THINK AT THE END OF THE DAY
THAT THE UNITED STATES WILL BE
DEEPLY INVOLVED IN SUPPORTING AN
ALLIANCE OF REGIONAL COUNTRIES
WHO WILL BE INVOLVED ON THE
GROUND WITH THE IRAQIS
THEMSELVES IN THE FOREFRONT, AND
WE MAY WELL BE PROVIDING
INTELLIGENCE AS WELL AS ARMS,
AND WE VERY WELL MAY HAVE A DRUM
CAMPAIGN TO TAKE AWAY I.S.I.S.'S
LEADERSHIP.
BUT I THINK THAT THE KEY THING
RIGHT NOW IS NOT TO REACT
INSTANTLY TO TRY TO GET SOME
RETALIATION FOR THIS REALLY
BARBARIC ATTACK, BUT RATHER TO
GET THE STRATEGY RIGHT, TO GET
THE PARTNERS BROUGHT IN, AND TO
ENSURE, OF COURSE, THAT THE
IRAQIS THEMSELVES CONTINUE TO
MOVE TOWARDS INCLUSIVENESS AND
TOWARDS WORKING TOGETHER AGAINST
A COMMON THREAD.
I DON'T THINK THE UNITED STATES
SHOULD BE ON THE GROUND IN THIS
ONE.
>> Woodruff: SO DOUGLAS
OLLIVANT, WHAT ABOUT THAT?
DO YOU AGREE IT WOULD BE A
MISTAKE FOR THE U.S. TO DO
SOMETHING NOW THAT WOULD BE SEEN
AS RETALIATION?
>> I THINK THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT.
IN THE MILITARY WE TALK ABOUT
TACTICAL PATIENCE.
YOU HAVE TO WAIT TILL THE
CONDITIONS ARE RIGHT TO PERFORM
THE RIGHT MILITARY ACTION AND
GET THE BEST EFFECT.
>> Woodruff: WAIT FOR WHAT?
FIRST, WE NEED RELIABLE
PARTNERS ON THE GROUND.
PUTTING U.S. BOOTS ON THE GROUND
IS A NON-STARTER BOTH HERE AND
IN THE REGION, SO WE NEED
RELIABLE PARTNERS THERE.
THE NEXT STEP IS TO GET A
GOVERNMENT FORMED IN IRAQ THAT
WE CAN WORK WITH, AND WE ARE
WAITING FOR THEM TO GO THROUGH
THEIR LONG, DRAWN-OUT GOVERNMENT
FORMATION PROCESS WITH A
RELIABLE PARTNER, AT LEAST ON
THE ONE SIDE OF THE BORDER.
THE SYRIAN SIDE WILL BE MUCH
HARDER.
>> Woodruff: ANNE-MARIE
SLAUGHTER, DO I HEAR YOU SAYING
WAITING FOR A GOVERNMENT TO BE
FORMED, WAITING FOR A COALITION
IS THE RIGHT THING TO DO?
>> WELL, YES, ACTUALLY.
I MEAN, I HAVE BEEN A STRONG
SUPPORTER OF USING FORCE IN
SYRIA FOR A COUPLE OF YEARS,
NOW.
BUT HERE, I DO THINK THERE HAS
TO BE A CENSIVE SOLUTION.
WE CAN CONTAIN I.S.I.S. AND WE
ARE GOING TO CONTINUE USING
DRONE STRIKES TO PREVENT
I.S.I.S. FROM EXPANDING THE
GROUND IT COVERS, FROM
THREATENING BAGHDAD, THE
PROPOSAL DAM, WE'RE GOING TO
CONTINUE DOING THAT.
I THINK THAT'S THE RIGHT THING
TO DO.
BUT THE LONGER TERM STRATEGY, AS
I SAID, TO ACTUALLY ELIMINATE
I.S.I.S., CERTAINLY TO RECAPTURE
THE TERRITORY IT HOLDS, IT DOES
TAKE A REGIONAL COALITION AND WE
CAN'T ACT WITHOUT GOVERNMENTS TO
ENGAGE WITH AND, AS I SAID,
ULTIMATELY, THAT'S GOING TO HAVE
TO INCLUDE TURKEY AND PROBABLY
ALSO IRAN.
>> Woodruff: SO, DANIEL
BENJAMIN, THAT MEANS WAIT, EVEN
IF IT MEANS MONTHS?
>> WELL, I DON'T THINK THAT IT
WILL BE MONTHS, AND I WOULDN'T
RULE OUT DOING THE KIND OF
TARGETED STRIKES THAT WE'VE SEEN
IN THE LAST MONTH BECAUSE
THEY'RE VITALLY IMPORTANT FOR
THE MORALE OF THE KURDS, OF THE
IRAQIS ON THE GROUND AND FOR
OTHERS, AS WELL, WHO ARE IN THE
REGION WATCHING THIS SPECTACLE
UNFOLD.
BUT THE FACT IS AT THE MOMENT,
I.S.I.S. IS A LIMITED THREAT TO
THE UNITED STATES AT HOME.
UPTHE GREATEST THREAT -- THE
GREATEST THREAT IS FROM
POTENTIALTHIZERS APPEARING
AND CARRYING SOMETHING OUT.
THIS IS A GROUP THAT HAS NOT
CARRIED OUT A TERRORIST ATTACK
OF AN INTERNATIONAL NATURE OVER
LONG DISTANCES IN ITS HISTORY.
SO WHILE PEOPLE IN THE REGION
ARE VERY MUCH IN PERIL, I THINK
WE OUGHT TO GET THIS RIGHT AND
CONSTRUCT THE RELATIONSHIPS,
CONSTRUCT THE ALLIANCE THAT WILL
CONTAIN AND DIMINISH THIS GROUP.
>> Woodruff: A LOT OF TOUGH
QUESTIONS TODAY AND WE THANK YOU
ALALL THREE.
WE HEAR YOU THREE, BENJAMIN DANL
BENJAMIN, COLONEL DOUGLAS
OLLIVANT AND ANNE-MARIE
SLAUGHTER.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: TURNING NOW TO
TODAY'S OTHER NEWS.
THE U.S. MILITARY WAS WAITING
FOR CONFIRMATION THAT IT HAD
KILLED THE LEADER OF AN AL-QAEDA
GROUP IN SOMALIA.
AIR-STRIKES OVERNIGHT HIT A
VEHICLE CARRYING AHMED ABDI
GODANE.
THEY ALSO STRUCK A BASE OF HIS
AL-SHABAAB MILITIA.
A PENTAGON SPOKESMAN SAID
WARPLANES AND DRONES CARRIED OUT
THE ATTACKS AGAINST GODANE,
ABOUT 100 MILES SOUTH OF
MOGADISHU.
>> HE IS THE RECOGNIZED,
APPOINTED LEADER OF THE AL
SHABAAB NETWORK IN SOMALIA.
IF HE WAS KILLED, THIS IS A VERY
SIGNIFICANT BLOW TO THEIR
NETWORK, TO THEIR ORGANIZATION.
AND WE BELIEVE TO THEIR ABILITY
TO CONTINUE TO CONDUCT TERRORIST
ATTACKS.
>> Woodruff: THE AL-SHABAAB
LEADER WAS THE ALLEGED
MASTERMIND OF THE ATTACK ON A
KENYAN SHOPPING MALL THAT KILLED
67 PEOPLE, ONE YEAR AGO.
ANOTHER AL-QAEDA AFFILIATE, IN
SYRIA, HAS NAMED ITS CONDITIONS
FOR RELEASING 45 U.N.
PEACEKEEPERS FROM FIJI.
"NT" REBELS
ABDUCTED THE PEACEKEEPERS LAST
THURSDAY, ON THE GOLAN HEIGHTS.
TODAY, THE GROUP DEMANDED TO BE
TAKEN OFF THE U.N.'S TERROR
LIST.
IT ALSO CALLED FOR COMPENSATION
FOR THE DEATHS OF THREE
FIGHTERS.
IN SAUDI ARABIA, AUTHORITIES SAY
THEY'VE ROUNDED UP 88 PEOPLE ON
SUSPICION OF PLANNING TERRORIST
ATTACKS.
THE SAUDI INTERIOR MINISTRY
ANNOUNCED TODAY THAT SOME OF THE
SUSPECTS HAVE LINKS TO THE
"ISLAMIC STATE" OR TO AL-QAEDA
GROUPS.
OFFICIALS SAID MANY OF THEM MAY
HAVE BEEN PLANNING
ASSASSINATIONS, INSIDE SAUDI
ARABIA AND ABROAD.
EUROPEAN UNION DIPLOMATS LAID
OUT PLANS TODAY FOR EXPANDING
SANCTIONS AGAINST RUSSIA, OVER
ITS ACTIONS IN UKRAINE.
AS THEY DID SO, RUSSIAN
PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN STIRRED
NEW OUTRAGE WHEN HE WAS QUOTED
AS SAYING: "IF I WANT TO, I CAN
TAKE KIEV IN TWO WEEKS."
THE KREMLIN COMPLAINED PUTIN WAS
TAKEN OUT OF CONTEXT.
MEANWHILE, FIGHTING CONTINUED IN
EASTERN UKRAINE, AND THE UNITED
NATIONS REPORTED A NEW EXODUS
FROM THE REGION.
>> THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE
DISPLACED INSIDE UKRAINE HAS
MORE THAN DOUBLED IN THE PAST
MONTH, AS OF  SEPTEMBER FIRST,
UNHCR ESTIMATES THAT 260,000
PEOPLE WERE DISPLACED, COMPARED
TO 117,000 IN EARLY AUGUST.
MOST OF THE DISPLACED ARE FROM
EASTERN UKRAINE AND ARE
REMAINING IN THE DONETSK,
KHARKIV AND KIEV REGIONS.
UNHCR BELIEVES THE ACTUAL NUMBER
OF PEOPLE DISPLACED IS MUCH
HIGHER.
>> Woodruff: TALKS TO REACH SOME
KIND OF ACCORD AMONG UKRAINE,
RUSSIA AND THE PRO-RUSSIAN
REBELS HAVE ADJOURNED UNTIL
FRIDAY, WHEN A CEASE-FIRE
DISCUSSION MAY BE BACK ON THE
TABLE.
PRESIDENT OBAMA HEADED FOR THE
BALTIC REGION OF EUROPE TODAY,
WITH TENSIONS RUNNING HIGH OVER
RUSSIAN INTENTIONS IN UKRAINE.
HE'LL STOP IN ESTONIA BEFORE
ATTENDING A NATO SUMMIT IN WALES
LATER IN THE WEEK.
AHEAD OF HIS ARRIVAL, THE
PRESIDENT OF ESTONIA CALLED FOR
PERMANENT NATO BASES IN HIS
COUNTRY, AS A SAFEGUARD AGAINST
THE RUSSIANS.
>> Woodruff: IN NIGERIA, BOKO
HARAM MILITANTS SEIZED MOST OF A
NORTHEASTERN TOWN OVERNIGHT
AFTER BATTLING GOVERNMENT
FORCES.
THERE WAS WORD OF HEAVY
CASUALTIES, AND UP TO 5,000
PEOPLE WERE FORCED TO FLEE.
THE TOWN, BAMA, IS JUST 45 MILES
AWAY FROM THE CAPITAL OF BORNO
STATE, WHERE THE MILITANTS
ABDUCTED MORE THAN 200 SCHOOL
GIRLS LAST APRIL.
>> Woodruff: PAKISTAN'S
PARLIAMENT RALLIED TODAY BEHIND
THE COUNTRY'S EMBATTLED PRIME
MINISTER, NAWAZ SHARIF.
THE BODY CONVENED AFTER A
WEEKEND OF VIOLENT PROTESTS BY
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE.
BUT A STRING OF PAKISTANI
LAWMAKERS VOICED THEIR SUPPORT
FOR SHARIF.
>> ( translated ): TODAY, WHEN
THE ENTIRE PARLIAMENT AND THE
ENTIRE NATION IS STANDING ON ONE
SIDE AND AN ARMED MOB IS ON THE
OTHER, I THINK NO ONE SHOULD
HAVE ANY DOUBTS ABOUT WHO THE
NATION WILL SUPPORT.
THE NATION IS WITH THEIR ELECTED
REPRESENTATIVES.
>> Woodruff: OUTSIDE THE
PARLIAMENT BUILDING, THOUSANDS
OF DEMONSTRATORS CAMPED ON THE
LAWN, BUT THERE WERE NO REPORTS
OF ANY NEW VIOLENCE.
THE PARLIAMENT SESSION COULD
LAST ALL WEEK.
BACK IN THE U.S., THE OIL FIELD
SERVICES GIANT HALLIBURTON WILL
PAY MORE THAN $1 BILLION TO
SETTLE CLAIMS FROM THE GULF OF
MEXICO OIL SPILL.
THE COMPANY WAS CEMENT
CONTRACTOR ON THE WELL SITE THAT
EXPLODED IN 2010 AND CAUSED THE
LARGEST SPILL IN U.S. HISTORY.
B.P. OPERATED THE WELL.
IT'S ALREADY REACHED A $9
BILLION SETTLEMENT.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST
NEARLY 31 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
17,067.
THE NASDAQ ROSE ALMOST 18 POINTS
TO CLOSE AT 4,598.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 SLIPPED ONE
POINT, TO 2,002.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR,
THE EBOLA OUTBREAK IS DESCRIBED
AS SPIRALING OUT OF CONTROL;
STOLEN CELEBRITIES' PRIVATE
PHOTOS REVEAL GAPS IN SECURING
PERSONAL INFORMATION ONLINE;
AND, PROVIDING CHINA'S ORPHANS
WITH THEIR FIRST EXPERIENCES OF
FAMILY LIFE.
>> Woodruff: PUBLIC HEALTH
OFFICIALS SOUNDED THE ALARM
TODAY ABOUT THE GROWING EBOLA
OUTBREAK IN WEST AFRICA, SAYING
IT COULD DESTABILIZE COUNTRIES
THERE, AND WARNED "THE WINDOW IS
CLOSING"  TO KEEP IT FROM
SPREADING TO OTHER REGIONS.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR COVERAGE.
>> SIX MONTHS INTO THE WORST
EBOLA EPIDEMIC IN HISTORY, THE
WORLD IS LOSING THE BATTLE TO
CONTAIN IT.
>> Brown: THAT STARK WARNING
TODAY, FROM THE INTERNATIONAL
HEAD OF "DOCTORS WITHOUT
BORDERS."
AT THE UNITED NATIONS, JOANNE
LIU CHARGED MANY OF THE EFFORTS
TO CURTAIL THE OUTBREAK HAVE
ACTUALLY MADE IT WORSE.
>> COERCIVE MEASURES, SUCH AS
LAWS CRIMINALIZING THE FAILURE
TO REPORT SUSPECTED CASES,
FORCED QUARANTINES, ARE DRIVING
PEOPLE UNDERGROUND.
THIS IS LEADING TO THE
CONCEALMENT OF CASES AND IS
PUSHING THE SICK AWAY FROM
HEALTH SYSTEMS.
THESE MEASURES HAVE ONLY SERVED
TO BREED FEAR AND UNREST, RATHER
THAN CONTAIN THE VIRUS.
>> Brown: DOCTORS WITHOUT
BORDERS IS CALLING FOR ANOTHER
800 BEDS JUST IN THE LIBERIAN
CAPITAL, MONROVIA.
BUT TODAY, HEALTH CARE WORKERS
AT MONROVIA'S MAIN HOSPITAL
WALKED OFF THE JOB, STRIKING,
THEY SAID, OVER UNPAID WAGES.
AND A MISSIONARY GROUP,
S.I.M.U.S.A., REPORTED ANOTHER
OF ITS AMERICAN DOCTORS IN
MONROVIA HAS TESTED POSITIVE FOR
THE VIRUS.
SO FAR, THERE'VE BEEN WELL OVER
3,000 CASES, AND MORE THAN 1,500
DEATHS, PRIMARILY IN GUINEA,
LIBERIA AND SIERRA LEONE.
BUT THE OUTBREAK HAS SPREAD TO
NIGERIA AND SENEGAL AS WELL.
AND AS OF TODAY, IN THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE
CONGO,  AN UNRELATED OUTBREAK OF
EBOLA HAS  KILLED 31 PEOPLE.
MEANWHILE, ANOTHER DANGER NOW
LOOMS,  FOOD SHORTAGES.
U.N. OFFICIALS SAID 1.3 MILLION
PEOPLE IN WEST AFRICA MAY NEED
FOOD ASSISTANCE IN THE COMING
MONTHS, AS QUARANTINES CUT
FARMERS OFF FROM THEIR FIELDS
AND SUSPENSIONS OF AIR TRAFFIC
CURTAILS IMPORTS.
BACK AT TODAY'S U.N. BRIEFING,
THE HEAD OF THE WORLD HEALTH
ORGANIZATION, MARGARET CHAN,
PAINTED A BLEAK PICTURE OF THE
IMMEDIATE FUTURE.
>> SECOND POINT: THE OUTBREAK
WILL GET WORSE BEFORE IT GETS
BETTER.
AND IT REQUIRES A WELL-
COORDINATED, BIG SURGE AND HUGE
SCALE-UP OF OUTBREAK RESPONSE
URGENTLY.
AND IT REQUIRES CREATIVITY AND
CULTURALLY APPROPRIATE ACTIONS.
>> Brown: THE DIRECTOR OF THE
CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND
PREVENTION, TOM FRIEDEN, JUST
RETURNED FROM WEST AFRICA.
HE WARNED TODAY THE OUTBREAK
THREATENS THE VERY STABILITY OF
AFFECTED COUNTRIES AND THEIR
NEIGHBOR STATES.
>> Brown: THE DIFFICULTY OF
FIGURING OUT HOW TO CONTAIN THE
OUTBREAK WAS CAPTURED ON VIDEO
IN A CHAOTIC SCENE IN MONROVIA
YESTERDAY.
IT INVOLVED A MAN WHO FLED FROM
A HOSPITAL'S QUARANTINE CENTER.
THE HOSPITAL WAS SO CROWDED LAST
MONTH IT HAD TO TURN AWAY EBOLA
PATIENTS.
JONATHAN MILLER OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS FILLS IN THE
PICTURE.
>> Reporter: THE MAN IN THE RED
SHIRT HAS EBOLA AND HE'S JUST
ESCAPED FROM A QUARANTINE
CENTER.
A LIBERIAN DOCTOR TRIES TO
REMONSTRATE, BUT THE PATIENT IS
HUNGRY; HE'S LOOKING FOR FOOD.
THE EBOLA COPS ARRIVE IN
PROTECTIVE SUITS.
FEAR OF INFECTION IS SPREADING
EVEN FASTER THAN THE VIRULENT
VIRUS ITSELF IN THIS, WEST
AFRICA'S HARDEST-HIT COUNTRY.
PANIC HAS NOW GRIPPED THE
MONROVIA MARKET.
>> THE PATIENTS ARE HUNGRY, THEY
ARE STARVING.
NO FOOD.
NO WATER.
THE GOVERNMENT NEEDS TO DO MORE.
>> WE TOLD THE LIBERIAN
GOVERNMENT FROM THE BEGINNING,
WE DO NOT WANT EBOLA CAMP HERE.
>> Reporter: TODAY MAKES IT THE
FIFTH EBOLA PATIENT COMING
OUTSIDE VOMITING AND DEFECATING.
A DOCTOR FROM MEDICINS SANS
FRONTIERES TRIES TO HOLD BACK
THE CROWD, THEN SEEKS TO
CONVINCE THE SICK MAN TO GET
INTO AN AMBULANCE, BUT HE'S
HAVING NONE OF IT.
A CATASTROPHE IS UNFOLDING IN
WEST AFRICA; A TRANSNATIONAL
CRISIS BORN OF POVERTY AND
HIGHLY INFECTIOUS DISEASE IN A
DEEPLY IMPOVERISHED COUNTRY.
THE MAN IN THE RED SHIRT
FINALLY MANHANDLED INTO THE BACK
OF A PICKUP.
THIS REGION IS REELING IN TERROR
OF CONTAGION; THE CRISIS MADE
WORSE BY A DISASTROUSLY
INADEQUATE RESPONSE FROM THE
RICH WORLD.
>> Brown: THE DIRECTOR OF THE
U.S. CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL
JUST RETURNED FROM SURVEYING THE
SITUATION IN WEST AFRICA.
AND IN A PRESS CONFERENCE THIS
AFTERNOON HE TOO ADDED STRONG
WORDS AND WARNINGS.
DR. TOM FRIEDEN JOINS US NOW
FROM ATLANTA.
WHAT'S REALLY IMPORTANT TO
UNDERSTAND IS WE KNOW HOW TO
CONTROL IT, AND THERE IS THIS
WINDOW OF OPPORTUNITY THAT'S
CLOSING BUT IT'S NOT TOO LATE.
WE HAVE TO ACT NOW.
URGENCY COULDN'T BE HIGHER.
SPEED IS OF THE ESSENCE.
>> Brown: YOU USE THE
LANGUAGE, THE WINDOW OF
OPPORTUNITY IS CLOSING, THE
CHALLENGE IS SO GREAT, YOU SAID
TODAY THE EPIDEMIC IS SO
OVERWHELMING THAT IT NOW
REQUIRES AN OVERWHELMING
RESPONSE.
WHAT SPECIFICALLY DID YOU SEE ON
YOUR TRIP AND IN TALKING WITH
OFFICIALS AROUND THE WORLD THAT
IS SO ALARMING NOW?
>> WELL, I'LL TELL YOU AN
EXAMPLE.
DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS IS DOING
PHENOMENAL WORK.
THEY'RE WORKING AN
EXTRAORDINARILY DIFFICULT
SITUATION AND TRYING TO DO
WHATEVER THEY CAN TO HELP
PATIENTS AND STOP THE OUTBREAK,
BUT THEY'RE OVERWHELMED BY THE
NUMBER OF PATIENTS, SO THEY'RE
OPENING NEW HOSPITAL BEDS AS
FAST AS THEY CAN BUT ONLY
SAFETY, TO HAVE A TERRIFIC TRACK
RECORD OF SAFETY OF PEOPLE
WORKING IN THE EMA TREATMENT
UNITS.
BUT IN ORDER TO DO THAT, THEY
CAN'T OPEN THEM AS FAST AS THE
PATIENTS ARE REQUESTING
HOSPITALIZATION.
WHAT THAT MEANS IS THAT PATIENTS
ARE NOT BEING HOSPITALIZED AND
THEY ARE SPREADING EBOLA IN
COMMUNITIES, INCLUDING IN URBAN
COMMUNITIES WHERE IT CAN SPREAD
QUITE WIDELY.
>> Brown: YOU SAID TODAY AND
JUST SAID TO US AGAIN, IN
ESSENCE, WE KNOW HOW TO CONTAIN
EBOLA, BUT THEN WHY THE LACK OF
SUCCESS?
WHAT ARE THE GREATEST EMPEDMENTS
AND WHAT DO YOU MOSTLY NEED NOW?
>> IT'S FUNDAMENTALLY ABOUT
SPEED AND SCALE.
EVERY DAY WE DELAY IN GETTING
THE PROVEN TREATMENTS AND
PREVENTION OUT THERE, IT SPREADS
MORE WIDELY AND WE HAVE MORE OF
IT.
ONE OF THE ENCOURAGING THINGS I
DID SEE WAS PEOPLE THROUGHOUT
THE RAGE WILLING TO HELP,
WILLING TO REALLY WORK TO MAKE A
DIFFERENCE.
90% OF THE STAFF AT THE DOCTORS
WITHOUT BORDERS HOSPITALS ARE
LOCAL STAFF WHO HAVE BEEN
RIGOROUSLY TRAINED AND ARE
WORKING HARD TO STOP THE
OUTBREAK AND CARE FOR PATIENTS,
BUT THE CHALLENGES REALLY ARE
ENORMOUS, AND THE URGENCY IS SO
GREAT.
THE SOONER WE INCREASE BEDS, THE
SOONER WE MAKE BURIALS SAFER,
THE SOONER WE MAKE HEALTHCARE
WORKERS BE SAFER FROM INFECTION,
WE WILL BE BETTER OFF IN TERMS
OF BEGINNING TO TURN THE
OUTBREAK AROUND.
TIME IS LIVES HERE.
>> Brown: ONE OF THE THINGS
YOU SAID TODAY REALLY JUMPED OUT
AT ME.
YOU WERE TALKING ABOUT AS THE
WORLD ISOLATES ITSELF FROM THESE
COUNTRIES, IT IS HAVING AN
ADVERSE EFFECT.
IT'S HARMFUL TO THE COUNTRIES
AND ULTIMATELY HARMFUL TO THE
REST OF THE WORLD, INCLUDING US,
AND YOU SAID, LIKE IT OR NOT, WE
ARE CONNECTED.
SO EXPLAIN THAT.
SHOULD W BE ISOLATING THOSE
COUNTRIES?
>> THE FACT IS PEOPLE ARE GOING
TO MOVE AROUND THE WORLD, AND
THE ONLY WAY TO REALLY PROTECT
OURSELVES FROM THIS IS TO STOP
IT AT THE SOURCE.
IT'S NOT DISSIMILAR TO THE
DYNAMIC THAT'S HAPPENED WITHIN
THESE COUNTRIES.
FRANKLY, AGAINST THE ADVICE OF
MANY, SOME OF THE COUNTRIES
ENFORCED QUARANTINES IN SOME
AREAS AND, AS DR. LEW FROM
M.S.F. SAID EARLIER ON YOUR
PROGRAM, THAT'S
COUNTERPRODUCTIVE BECAUSE IT
DRIVES PATIENTS UNDERGROUND,
INCREASES HOSTILITY.
IT'S NOT A HELP.
WE NEED TO GET PATIENTS TO
SERVICES AND FAMILIES IN TO CARE
QUICKER SO THEY STOP SPREADING
DISEASE AND HAVE A BETTER CHANCE
OF SURVIVAL BECAUSE EARLY
TREATMENT IMPROVEMENTS SURVIVAL.
>> Brown: GIVEN THE
INTERCONNECTEDNESS, WHAT ABOUT
THE POTENTIAL FOR THE SPREAD IN
THE U.S. AND GIVEN THIS NEW
ALARM OF HOW QUICKLY THIS IS
SPREADING, WHAT DO YOU TELL
PEOPLE D TONIGHT WHO ARE AFRAIDN
THIS COUNTRY?
>> GIVEN THE LARGE INCREASES
WE'RE SEEING AND WILL LIKELY SEE
IN THE COMING WEEKS, I WOULD BE
SURPRISED IF WE DIDN'T SEE OTHER
CASES IN OTHER PARTS OF AFRICA.
FOR THE U.S., IT'S CERTAINLY
POSSIBLE WE'LL GET SOMEONE HERE
WHO DEVELOPS SYMPTOMS OF EBOLA
AND MAY HAVE EBOLA, THAT'S A
POSSIBILITY.
THAT'S WHY WE'VE ASKED DOCTOR
WORKING IN EMERGENCY DEPARTMENTS
AND ELSEWHERE TO BE ON THE
LOOKOUT FOR PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN
IN AN AREA WITH EBOLA IN THE
PAST THREE WEEKS AND IF THEY
HAVE FEVER OR OTHER SYMPTOMS
CONSISTENT WITH EBOLA TO ISOLATE
AND TEST THEM.
THAT'S WHY WE'VE WORKED WITH
ABOUT TEN STATES AROUND THE
COUNTRY TO HAVE TESTS FOR EBOLA
UP AND AVAILABLE SO THEY COULD
BE TESTED IN A REGIONAL
APPROACH.
SO WE'RE PREPARED IN THIS
COUNTRY.
EBOLA DOESN'T SPREAD THROUGH
CASUAL CONTACT.
IT DOESN'T SPREAD THROUGH THE
AIR NATURALLY.
THE WAY IT SPREADS IS BY
PHYSICAL CONTACT WITH A SICK
PERSON OR THEIR BODY FLUIDS OR
SOMEONE WHO'S DIED FROM EBOLA
WITH THEIR BODY FLUIDS.
STANDARD INFECTION CONTROL IN
HOSPITALS HAS PREVENTED SPREAD
OF FIVE CASE CANS OF HEMORRHAGIC
FEVERS THAT HAVE BEEN IN THE
U.S. IN THE PAST DECADE.
>> Brown: I WANT TO IS YOU IN
THE LAST MINUTE ABOUT ONE OTHER
FRIGHTENING SCENARIO YOU RAISED
TODAY WHICH IS THE POSSIBILITY
THAT EBOLA MIGHT BECOME EASIER
TO SPREAD THROUGH GENETIC
MUTATION.
YOU SAID YOU DIDN'T SEE SIGNS OF
IT YET, BUT IT'S POSSIBLE IT'S
NOT ZERO, IS THE WAY YOU PUT IT.
EXPLAIN THAT.
THAT WOULD BE A QUITE
FRIGHTENING NEW STEP.
>> WELL, THE GENETIC MATERIAL OF
THE VIRUS HAS BEEN QUITE STABLE
FOR 40 YEARS.
SO WE DON'T THINK OF THIS AS A
VIRUS THAT CHANGES MUCH.
BUT THE LONGER IT SPREADS AND
THE MORE PEOPLE IT SPREADS TO,
THE MORE WHAT'S CALLED SELECTIVE
PRIER THAT MIGHT -- PRESSURE
THAT MIGHT FAVOR STRAINS THAT
SPREAD MORE EASILY, AND THAT'S A
CONCERN WE'LL BE TRACKING FOR.
THE BOTTOM LINE HERE IS WE HAVE
TO SURGE A RESPONSE AND ACT NOW
BY BRINGING DOWN THE NUMBER OF
CASES.
WE'LL PROTECT OURSELVES, PROTECT
WEST AFRICA, REDUCE THE
HUMANITARIAN CRISIS, THE
INSECURITY THAT'S THERE, AND
MAKE IT LESS LIKELY THERE ARE
PATIENTS TRAVELING TO OTHER
PARTS TO HAVE THE WORLD AND LESS
LIKELY WE COULD GET THAT KIND OF
MUTATION.
>> Brown: DR. TOM FRIEDEN OF
THE C.D.C., THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: THE LATEST INTERNET
DATA BREACH, THIS TIME OF
INTIMATE CELEBRITY PHOTOS, IS
SETTING OFF CONCERNS ONCE AGAIN,
NOW INVOLVING POPULAR ONLINE
STORAGE SYSTEMS KNOWN AS THE
"CLOUD."
A CACHE OF NUDE PHOTOS,
INCLUDING OF ACTRESS JENNIFER
LAWRENCE AND OTHERS, WERE POSTED
TO ONLINE BULLETIN BOARDS OVER
THE WEEKEND.
IT'S NOT CLEAR WHO HACKED THE
PHOTOS OR WHO POSTED THEM.
TODAY, APPLE SAID THE ATTACKS
WERE NOT FROM A GENERAL BREACH
OF ITS CLOUD OR PHONE SYSTEMS.
>> CELEBRITY ACCOUNTS WERE
COMPROMISED BY A VERY TARGETED
ATTACK ON USER NAMES, PASSWORDS
AND SECURITY QUESTIONS.
>> Woodruff: INSTEAD, "CELEBRITY
FOR MORE ON ALL THIS, WE TURN
TO, DMITRI ALPEROVITCH  CO-
FOUNDER AND CHIEF TECHNOLOGY
OFFICER OF CROWDSTRIKE, A CYBER
SECURITY FIRM.
AND SEAN GALLAGHER.
HE IS THE INTERNET TECHNOLOGY
EDITOR AT A.R.S. TECHNICAL,
A WEBSITE FOR TECH NEWS AND
INFORMATION.
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH TO THE
PROGRAM.
DMITRI ALPEROVITCH FIRST.
WHAT DO YOU THINK HAPPENED IN
THIS INSTANCE?
>> WE KNOW A COUPLE THINGS.
WE KNOW THE CELEBRITIES WERE
TAKING PICTURES AND VIDEOS WITH
THEIR iPhoneS AND USING
ICLOUD TO BACK UP THE DATA
THROUGH APPLE SERVE SERVERS.
WE KNOW SOMEONE WAS ABLE TO
BREECH THE ACCOUNTS AND DOWNLOAD
ALL THE INMAT PHOTOS AND THE
OTHER INFORMATION STORED ON THE
ACCOUNTS WHICH MAY ALSO INCLUDE
TEXT MESSAGES, E-MAILS, CONTACT
INFORMATION, VOICE MAILS AND
LOTS OF OTHER DATA.
>> Woodruff: SEAN GALLAGHER,
WHAT WOULD YOU ADD TO THAT IN
TERMS OF HOW THIS WAS PULLED
OFF?
>> THIS IS THE SAME SORT OF HACK
THAT'S HAPPENED FREQUENTLY WITH
CELEBRITIES' DEVICES.
THERE HAVE BEEN A NUMBER OF
ATTACKS OVER THE LAST FEW YEARS
INCLUDING ONE IN 2011 WHEN
SCARLET JOHANSSON'S PHONE WAS
HACKED WHERE THE ATTACKER HAS
USED PERSONAL INFORMATION TO
SORT OF GET ACCESSO THE SECURITY
QUESTIONS THAT ARE ASSOCIATED
WITH THE ACCOUNT SO THAT THEY
CAN TAKE OVER THE ACCOUNT AND
GET ACCESS TO THE CONTENTS OF
IT.
>> Woodruff: STAYING WITH YOU,
SEAN GALLAGHER, WHAT QUESTIONS
DOES THIS RAISE ABOUT THE
SO-CALLED CLOUD.
AND REMIND EVERYBODY WHAT THE
CLOUD IS.
>> CLOUD IS COMPUTERS IN A DATA
CENTER ATTACHED TO THE INTERNET.
IN THIS CASE, THEY WERE
COMPUTERS AT A DATA CENTER OWNED
BY APPLE.
ALSO, DATA WAS STOLEN FROM
DEVICES THAT WERE ON GOOGLE'S
CLOUD.
AND THEY ARE BASICALLY CONNECTED
TO YOUR DEVICE THROUGH THE
INTERNET, SHIELDED FROM DIRECT
ACCESS FROM THE INTERNET OTHER
THAN THROUGH SPECIFIC
APPLICATION BASES.
SO THEY'RE BASICALLY JUST
COMPUTERS SITTING IN A DATA
CENTER THAT ARE ACCESSIBLE FROM
THE INTERNET FROM YOUR DEVICE.
>> Woodruff: AND DMITRI
ALPEROVITCH, SHOULD WE HAVE
EXPECTED THAT WHATEVER'S IN THE
CLOUD IS SECURE OR CAN'T BE
REACHED BY SOMEBODY ELSE?
>> THE PROBLEM REALLY IS THE
PASSWORD YOU USE TO PROTECT
THEDA AT THAT.  IN THE CASE OF
THE CELEBRITIES, WE KNOW THAT
THE PASSWORDS THEY USE SOMETIMES
MAKE YOU WONDER WHAT THEY'RE
THINKING.
IT'S THE NAMES OF THEIR DOGS
THEY REVEAL IN THEIR INTERVIEWS,
THEIR BIRTHDAYS, THINGS THAT ARE
EASY TO GUESS.
ONCE YOU HAVE THE PASSWORD, YOU
CAN ACCESS THE DATA AND DOWNLOAD
IT.
>> Woodruff: SO WHAT DOES THAT
MEAN FOR EVERYBODY ELSE?
WE'RE ALL DOWNLOADING AND
STORING THINGS -- NOT ALL BUT
MANY OF US -- STORING THINGS IN
THE CLOUD.
DOES THIS MEAN NOTHING IS
SECURE?
>> DEPENDS ON HOW YOU USE IT.
WHAT'S IMPORTANT ABOUT THE HACK
IS THE INFORMATION LEAKED IS
BOUT THE 100 CELEBRITIES.
BUT IN REALTY WE KNOW FOR
SEVERAL MONTHS YOU HAVE
INDIVIDUALS ON FORUMS TRADING
INFORMATION ABOUT OTHER
INDIVIDUALS, EX-WIVES AND
GIRLFRIENDS THAT STALKERS MAY
WANT TO GET ACCESS TO THEIR
DATA.
WE KNOW IF YOU'RE NOT USING A
SECRET PASSWORD, SOMEONE CAN GET
ACCESS TO THE DATA.
>> Woodruff: SEAN GALLAGHER,
WHAT ARE SOME OF THE LESSONS FOR
THE REST OF US?
TODAY ANOTHER DATA BREECH, HOME
DEPOT ANNOUNCED IT WAS SEEING A
CREDIT CARD BREECH.
LAST WEEK ONE OF THE MAJOR BANKS
ANNOUNCE ADD BREECH.
WHAT ARE WE SEEING?
THIS IS BECOMING A REGO CORNS.
>> WELL, THESE ARE TWO DIFFERENT
TYPES OF THINGS HAPPENING FOR
ESSENTIALLY THE SAME REASON.
THE ATTACKS ON HOME DEPOT AND JP
MORGAN WERE VERY SOPHISTICATED
ATTACKS.
THEY TOOK A VERY LONG PERIOD OF
TIME TO CARRY OUT AND THEY WERE
TARGETING WHERE THE MONEY WAS.
IN THE CASE OF HOME DEPOT, IT'S
SIMILAR TO WHAT HAPPENED WITH
TARGET, THEY WENT AFTER THEIR
POINT OF SALE SYSTEMS TO GET
ACCESS TO CREDIT CARD
INFORMATION.
THE SIMILAR LATER BETWEEN THESE
TWO THINGS IS THAT BOTH THESE
SYSTEMS HAVE UNEXPECTED
CONNECTIONS TO THE INTERNET.
PEOPLE WHO USE THEIR CELL PHONES
THEN EXPECT NECESSARILY FOR THE
DATA ON THEIR CELL PHONES TO BE
REPLICATED UP TO AN
INTERNET-CONNECTED DEVICE.
IT'S SOMETHING A LOT OF PEOPLE
DON'T THINK ABOUT WHEN THEY USE
THESE.
WITH POINT OF SALE SYSTEMS, YOU
DON'T EXPECT THEM TO BE
CONNECTED TO THE INTERNET
EITHER, BUT THOSE SYSTEMS HIT
ON -- THEY'RE ALL CONNECTED TO
THE INTERNET.
>> Woodruff: THIS IS SOMETHING
WE'RE LEARNING.
DMITRI ALPEROVITCH, APPLE SAYS
IT'S SIXTH IN WEAKNESS IN
SECURITY.
DOES THAT MEAN PEOPLE SHOULD BE
REASSURED?
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT GOOGLE'S
CLOUD.
WHAT ARE WE REALLY DEALING WITH
HERE IN TERMS OF HOW MUCH MORE
CONSCIOUS ALL OF US NEED TO BE
ABOUT WHAT WE PUT ONLINE?
>> IT'S IMPORTANT TO UNDERSTAND
THAT WHAT APPLE FIXED IS THE
ABILITY FOR SOMEONE TO TRY AS
MANY PASSWORDS AS THEY WANTED TO
FOR AN INDIVIDUAL ACCOUNT
RANDOMLY AND THEN ULTIMATELY
GUESS THE RIGHT PASSWORD SO NOW
YOU CAN ONLY TRY A FEW BEFORE
YOU LOCK DOWN THE ACCOUNT AND
CAN'T FIND ANYMORE.
BUT IF YOU USE A WEAK PASSWORD
BECAUSE IT'S YOUR DOG'S NAME OR
BIRTHDAY AND SOMEONE CAN GET ON
THE FIRST TRY, YOU WANT A SECURE
PASSWORD.
>> Woodruff: MEANING WHAT?
A LONG, RANDOM PASSWORD.
YOU STORE IT IN A SECURE
LOCATION AND USE A DIFFERENT ONE
FOR EVERY SERVICE.
>> Woodruff: WHAT IS A SECURE
LOCATION TO STORE IT?
>> THERE ARE FREE PASSWORD
SYSTEMS WHERE YOU CAN RANDOMLY
ENTER A LONG PASSWORD AND HAVE
IT ENCRYPTED AND STORED ON YOUR
MACHINE.
>> Woodruff: IS THAT WHAT YOU
WOULD SAY, SEAN GALLAGHER?
>> DON'T USE DICTIONARY WORDS
EVEN WHEN OBSCURED USING NUMBERS
SUBSTITUTED FOR LETTERS.
THOSE THINGS ARE IN DATABASES OF
PASSWORDS HACKERS HAVE TO TRY
AND GUESS YOUR PASSWORD.
I WOULD ALSO RECOMMEND USING
TWO-FACTOR AUTHENTICATION WHICH
IS A SERVICE AVAILABLE FOR MOST
TO HAVE THE CLOUD SERVICES WHERE
YOU NEED TO HAVE PHYSICAL ACCESS
TO YOUR DEVICE TO GAIN ACCESS TO
YOUR ACCOUNT.
WE'LL SEND A PASS CODE TO YOU
AND YOU NEED TO ENTER THAT TO
PROVE YOU'RE WHO YOU CLAIM YOU
ARE OR IF YOU USE YOUR DEVICE
YOU NEED TO USE A RECOVERY KEY.
THAT'S WHAT APPLE IS PUSHING
PEOPLE TO DO NOW.
>> Woodruff: DMITRI, HOW WOULD
THAT WORK?
>> USE ON TWO-FACTOR
AUTHENTICATION, A SETTING ON
ICLOUD, WHEN YOU TRY TO LOG IN,
IT ASKS YOU FOR A PASSWORD AND
TEXTS YOU A CODE TO ENTER.
>> Woodruff: THIS IS GOING TO
REQUIRE SPENDING TIME WHEN
PEOPLE PUT IN THEIR INFORMATION.
>> THAT'S TRUE.
ANOTHER THING, IF YOU'RE NOT
USING TWO-FACTOR AUTHENTICATION
NOW, APPLE AS THREE DAY DELAY ON
ACTIVATING TWO-FACTOR
AUTHENTICATION TO PREVENT PEOPLE
FROM TAKING OVER YOUR ACCOUNT,
YOU NEED CHANGE YOUR SECURITY
QUESTION TOME ISN'T
EASILY ATTAINABLE FROM YOUR
PERSONAL INFORMATION.
YOU MAY WANT TO LIE ABOUT THOSE
QUESTIONS, EASY TO REMEMBER BY
YOU.
>> IN OTHER WORDS, YOUR
EX-BOYFRIEND PROBABLY KNOWS YOUR
MOTHER'S MAIDEN NAME.
>> Woodruff: WE THANK YOU
BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
ONE WOMAN'S EFFORTS TO TRANSFORM
THE WAY ORPHANS ARE CARED FOR IN
CHINA.
NEWSHOUR CORRESPONDENT
FRED DE SAM LAZARO REPORTS AS
PART OF HIS "AGENTS FOR CHANGE"
SERIES.
A VERSION OF FRED'S STORY AIRED
ON THE  P.B.S. PROGRAM,
"RELIGION AND ETHICS
NEWSWEEKLY."
AND A WARNING: THIS PIECE
CONTAINS SOME DISTURBING ES
>> Reporter: FOR THE BOWEN
FAMILY, THIS WAS A HUGE DAY.
>> SHE GOT THE INTERNATIONAL
BACCALAUREATE DIPLOMA, AND THEN
SHE GOT THE BI-LITERACY MEDAL,
AS OPPOSED TO BI-LINGUAL.
SHE CAN READ AND WRITE AND TALK.
>> Reporter: THAT 18-YEAR-OLD
MAYA BOWEN CAN TALK LET ALONE
GRADUATE WITH HONORS SEEMS BOTH
NATURAL AND UNLIKELY, GIVEN HER
EARLY CHILDHOOD IN A DISTANT
RICHARD AND JENNY BOWEN ADOPTED
HER WHEN SHE WAS T
>> NO ONE HAD EVER TALKED TO HER
AND YOU KNOW LANGUAGE DEVELOPS
WHEN PEOPLE TALK TO YOU.
THAT'S HOW YOU LEARN TO SPEAK,
SO SHE HAD NO LANGUAGE AT ALL.
>> Reporter: JENNY BOWEN
RECENTLY PUBLISHED A BOOK
CALLED, "WISH YOU HAPPY
FOREVER," CHRONICLING HOW MAYA,
AND LATER ANYA, CAME TO BE PART
OF THE FAMILY.THE CALIFORNIA COE
ALREADY IN THEIR FIFTIES, WITH
GROWN CHILDREN BUT THEY WERE
MOVED BY REPORTS OF CHILD
NEGLECT ON A VAST SCALE IN
CHINA.
>> Reporter: THIS 1995 FILM,
SHOT UNDERCOVER, CALLED THE
DYING ROOMS, SHOWED ORPHANAGES
FILLED WITH GIRLS, ABANDONED IN
A COUNTRY THAT HAD BEGUN
RESTRICTING FAMILIES TO ONE
CHILD IN A CULTURE THATADITIONAY
CHILDREN.
>> SO WE, WE THOUGHT THE THING
WE COULD DO IS SAVE ONE LIFE.
SO, THAT'S WHAT WE DID.
WE WENT TO CHINA TO SAVE A LIFE.
>> Reporter: BUT JENNY BOWEN
SAYS SHE FOUND IT IMPOSSIBLE TO
IGNORE THE CONDITIONS MAYA WOULD
ESCAPE.
MILLIONS OF OTHERS STILL
LANGUISHED-IN THE CUSTODY OF
INDIFFERENT OR UNTRAINED
WORKERS, INVISIBLE IN A NATION
FOCUSED ON INDUSTRIALIZING ITS
WAY OUT OF THIRD WORLD POVERTY.
16 YEARS LATER JENNY BOWEN HEADS
A GROUP CALLED HALF THE SKY
FOUNDATION THAT'S HELPING
TRANSFORM WAY ORPHANS ARE CARED
FOR ACROSS CHINA, WITH THE
BLESSINGS OF AND OFTEN IN
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE GOVERNMENT.
THE NAME DERIVES FROM A CHINESE
PROVERB THAT SAYS WOMEN HOLD UP
HALF THE SKY.
THE GROUP HAS SO FAR TRAINED
12,000 TEACHERS AND NANNIES IN
27 PROVINCES.
WE VISITED IN THE NORTHEASTERN
Y
>> ALL THESE CHILDREN ARE
ABANDONED, MANY OF THEM ARE
ABANDONED BECAUSE THEY HAVE WHAT
ARE CALLED SPECIAL NEEDS.
BEFORE HALF THE SKY, CHILDREN
WERE TIED TO THEIR CHAIRS, THEY
WERE LYING IN BED, YOU COULD SEE
THE TRAGEDY, YOU WALK INTO A
ROOM AND YOU WERE JUST
CONFRONTED WITH THE TRAGEDY.
HERE IT'S INVISIBLE, THEY'RE
BEING TREATED LIKE THEIR LIVES
MATTER, THEY KNOW IT AND THEY
KNOW THEY'RE LOVED, SO THEY
THRIVE.
>> Reporter: SHE SAYS CHILDREN
NEED A SENSE OF BEING PART OF A
FAMILY, IN WHATEVER SHAPE FAMILY
TAKES.
>> IT DOESN'T MEAN THAT THEY
HAVE TO BE BACK WITH THEIR BIRTH
FAMILIES OR PERMANENTLY ADOPTED
OR ANYTHING, THEY JUST NEED TO
HAVE THE LOVE THAT A FAMILY
GIVES NATURALLY TO A CHILD.
AND TO ME IT WAS LIKE A NO
BRAINER.
>> Reporter: IT WAS NOT A NO-
BRAINER TO CONVINCE AN
ENTRENCHED STATE RUN WELFARE
SYSTEM.
WHAT'S MORE, THE PUBLICITY ABOUT
ORPHANAGE CONDITIONS WAS DEEPLY
INSULTING TO A GOVERNMENT HIGHLY
SENSITIVE ABOUT CHINA'S IMAGE.
ZHANG ZHIRONG WORKS FOR HALF THE
SKY'S CHINA OFFICES.
>> CHINA ALWAYS WANTS TO TELL
THE WORLD SHE IS THE BEST.
EVERYTHING'S PERFECT.
WE ARE SERVING THE PEOPLE, WE
ARE HELPING THE PEOPLE, THAT'S
CHINA POLITICALLY, AT THAT TIME
IT WAS DIFFICULT TO LET PEOPLE,
ESPECIALLY FOREIGNERS TO COME IN
AND SEE SOME OF THE PROBLEMS, TO
SEE SOME OF THE DARK SIDE.
>> Reporter: ZHANG WAS A KEY
EARLY ALLY.
AN ENGLISH PROFESSOR AND
OFFICIAL INTERPRETER WELL-VERSED
IN THE CULTURE AND POLITICS OF
THE BUREAUCRACY, ZHANG WAS
CONVINCED OF BOWEN'S SINCERITY.
>> I REALLY FELT SHE HAD THE
HEART.
SHE WANTED TO HELP.
NO OTHER INTENTIONS.
>> Reporter: DID IT HELP THAT
SHE HAD CHINESE DAUGHTERS, AS
WELL?
>> SHE ALWAYS SAYS I'M HALF
CHINESE, MY DAUGHTERS ARE ALL
CHINESE.
>> I KNOW THAT RESONATED, THE
INTERNATIONAL CRITICISM
CERTAINLY LET THEM KNOW THAT
SOMETHING HAD TO BE DONE, I WAS
PROBABLY THE LEAST THREATENING
OF THE OPTIONS OUT THERE.
>> Reporter: BOWEN SOUGHT
GUIDANCE FROM CHILD DEVELOPMENT
EXPERTS.
SHE RAISED FUNDS IN HOLLYWOOD
WHERE WAS A SCREENWRITER AND
FILMMAKER AND FROM AMERICAN
COUPLES WHO'D ADOPTED CHINESE
DAUGHTERS.
SHE ORGANIZED VOLUNTEER TRIPS TO
TRAIN CAREGIVERS AND SPRUCE UP
THE ENVIRONMENT IN WHICH ORPHANS
SPENT THEIR DAYS.
CHILDREN WHO ONCE SAT
IMPASSIVELY ARE NOW IN BUSY PRE-
SCHOOLS.
WALLS THAT HAD GENERIC CARTOON
IMAGES NOW DISPLAY THE
CHILDREN'S OWN ARTWORK AND
PICTURES.
>> CHILDREN IN INSTITUTIONS,
TRADITIONAL INSTITUTIONS, THEY
MOVE IN PACKS, THEY ALL EAT AT
THE SAME TIME, THEY ALL SLEEP AT
THE SAME TIME, THEY ALL PEE AT
THE SAME TIME AND THEY DON'T
SEPARATE THEMSELVES FROM EACH
OTHER.
SO WE USE A LOT OF MIRRORS,
THINGS LIKE THIS, WHERE THEY CAN
IDENTIFY THEMSELVES, AND THAT'S
THE BEGINNING OF DEVELOPING
CURIOSITY, OPINIONS, I CAN TELL
YOU HAVE OPINIONS.
>> Reporter: TEACHER LIN LIN
SAYS HALF THE SKY'S APPROACH,
CALLED "RESPONSIVE CARE," IS
TAILORED TO CHILDREN'S
INDIVIDUAL LEARNING INTERESTS, A
FAR CRY FROM THE PREVIOUS ROTE
LEARNING.
>> KIDS WERE ASKED TO RECITE A
LOT OF THINGS, OLD POEMS AND
LITERATURE, WHICH THEY DID NOT
UNDERSTAND, THEY WEREN'T
INTERESTED IN.
NOW WE'RE DOING THINGS THAT ARE
INTERESTING TO THEM, GRADUALLY
YOU BUILD A TRUST WITH THESE
CHILDREN AND THEY BEGIN TO
CONSIDER YOU AS PART OF THEIR
FAMILY.
>> Reporter: THAT'S A KEY GOAL:
TO MAKE SUCH CAREGIVERS PART OF
THE CHILD'S UNDERSTANDING OF
FAMILY.
BUT HALF THE SKY IS ALSO
BUILDING SO-CALLED FAMILY
VILLAGES, A MORE TRADITIONAL
SETTING.
COUPLES, MOST WITH GROWN
CHILDREN, LIKE LIU PENG YING AND
HER HUSBAND SHEN REN CHANG, ARE
GIVEN HOUSING AND A SMALL
STIPEND TO RAISE THEIR YOUNG
ORPHANED CHARGES.
IT'S AN EASY SELL IN A COUNTRY
WHERE LARGE FAMILIES USED TO BE
THE TRADITION.
>> ( translated ): THESE ARE
LIKE MY OWN CHILDREN, LIKE MY
GRANDCHILDREN. MY HUSBAND LIKES
CHILDREN EVEN MORE THAN I DO.
THAT'S WHY WE DECIDED TO APPLY
FOR THIS PROGRAM.
>> Reporter: IN TODAY'S
WEALTHIER, MORE URBANIZED CHINA,
BOWEN SAYS FEWER HEALTHY FEMALE
BABIES ARE ABANDONED.
ABOUT THREE QUARTERS OF A
MILLION CHILDREN ARE IN STATE
CUSTODY.
THEY ARE MORE LIKELY FROM
IMPOVERISHED RURAL AREAS AND
MORE LIKELY TO HAVE CONGENITAL
OR MEDICAL CONDITIONS THEIR
FAMILIES CANNOT AFFORD TO TREAT.
FOR THEM, HALF THE SKY RUNS A
CARE CENTER IN BEIJING WITH
CORPORATE, FOUNDATION AND
GOVERNMENT SUPPORT.
IT PROVIDES CARE FOR CHILDREN AS
THEY AWAIT OR RECOVER FROM
SURGERY OR AS IN THE SAD CASE OF
FOUR-YEAR-OLD PIN PIN,
CHEMOTHERAPY
>> Reporter: CANCER IN BOTH
EYES?
>> YES.
AND EIGHT TIMES CHEMOTHERAPY
>> Reporter: FOR THE WEEKS OR
MONTHS PIN PIN WILL SPEND HERE,
A TEACHER WILL HELP HER ADJUST
TO THE LOSS OF HER SIGHT:
>> YOU NEED TO HAVE A TEACHER
BECAUSE YOU HAVE A LOT OF THINGS
YOU NEED TO LEARN.
WE DON'T JUST WORRY ABOUT YOUR
EYES.
WE HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT YOUR
BRAIN, HUH?
>> MAYA BOWEN!
>> Reporter: MAYA BOWEN PLANS TO
BECOME AN ELEMENTARY TEACHER.
SHE AND ANYA, A HIGH SCHOOL
JUNIOR HAVE GONE FROM BEING
THANKFUL TO IMPRESSED
>> I DID A PAPER, WE COULD DO IT
ON ANYTHING, SO I CHOSE MY MOM,
CAUSE I THOUGHT THAT WOULD BE AN
EASY TOPIC, SO THEN WHEN I
STARTED RESEARCHING AND LEARNING
EVERYTHING SHE DID, I WAS LIKE
WOW, LIKE THIS GOES WAY FARTHER
THAN I THOUGHT.
SHE HAS LIKE A MUCH BIGGER
INFLUENCE THAN I EVER THOUGHT.
>> Reporter: JENNY BOWEN IS NOW
68, C.E.O. OF A NOW $7 MILLION A
YEAR ENTERPRISE, HOPES TO EXPAND
ITS WORK BEYOND CHINA TO
NEIGHBORING COUNTRIES IN ASIA.
SHE HAS NO PLANS TO RETIRE.
>> Woodruff: FRED'S REPORTING IS
A PARTNERSHIP WITH THE UNDER-
TOLD STORIES PROJECT AT ST.
MARY'S UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
ISLAMIC STATE RADICALS IN SYRIA
DECLARED THEY'VE BEHEADED A
SECOND AMERICAN JOURNALIST,
STEVEN SOTLOFF.
AND THE U.S. MILITARY AWAITED
CONFIRMATION THAT AIR STRIKES
LAST NIGHT KILLED THE LEADER OF
"AL-SHABAAB," AN AL-QAEDA GROUP
IN SOMALIA.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, PERFORMING ARTS STUDENTS AT
DETROIT'S CASS TECH WERE USED TO
PUTTING ON THE TYPICAL PLAYS
THAT HIGH SCHOOLS ACROSS THE
COUNTRY STAGE.
BUT LAST FALL, INSPIRED BY THEIR
CITY'S PERSEVERANCE AMID
TURMOIL, THEY DECIDED TO CREATE
THEIR OWN.
THE RESULT IS TITLED "UP FROM
THE ASHES," AND YOU CAN WATCH
SOME OF IT, ON OUR ART BEAT
PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF, WE'LL SEE YOU
ON-LINE AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW
EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.